docs: wxo feature (#12677)
langflow-ai/langflow: docs/docs/Deployment/deployment-wxo.mdx

Deploying a flow on IBM watsonx Orchestrate is different from the other Langflow deployment options.
This workflow **does not** deploy a full-featured Langflow server and flow builder UI.
Instead, Langflow packages your selected flow and flow version, and then publishes it to IBM watsonx Orchestrate as a tool that an IBM watsonx Orchestrate agent can call.
Langflow is used to build and configure the flow, while IBM watsonx Orchestrate hosts the agent experience and invokes the deployed flow as part of that agent's toolset.

## Prerequisites

- [Install and start Langflow](/get-started-installation)
- Create an [OpenAI API key](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys)
- Create an [IBM watsonx Orchestrate deployment](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/watsonx/watson-orchestrate/base?topic=getting-started-watsonx-orchestrate)

## Create and deploy a flow

1. Create a flow in the Langflow UI, such as the Simple Agent starter flow in the [Quickstart](/get-started-quickstart).

2. Click <Icon name="Rocket" aria-hidden="true"/> **Deploy**.
The **Provider** pane opens.

> 3. Enter a **Name**, **Service Instance URL**, and **API Key** from your IBM watsonx Orchestrate deployment.

Reviewer: "from your IBM watsonx Orchestrate ~~deployment~~ instance"

> 3. Enter a **Name**, **Service Instance URL**, and **API Key** from your IBM watsonx Orchestrate deployment.

Reviewer: "Enter ~~a~~ _the_ Name, Service Instance URL, ..."

> These values are found in the **Settings** page of your IBM watsonx Orchestrate deployment.

Reviewer: ~~deployment~~ instance

The values look similar to the example below.

>    - **Name**: `YOUR_DEPLOYMENT_NAME`

Reviewer: similarly here

6. In the **Attach Flows** pane, select a flow and a version of that flow to deploy.
7. In the **Create Connections** pane, you can either select an available connection to bind to the flow, or create a new connection.
   To create a new connection, enter a **Connection Name**, and include any environment variables the flow requires, such as the `OPENAI_API_KEY`.
   Langflow auto-detects global variables from the flow JSON file, but additional variables can be manually added.
8. To add the new connection to the list of available connections, click **Create Connection**.
9. In the list of available connections, select the new connection, and then click **Attach Connection to Flow**.

   :::tip
   To bind the connection to the flow **without** environment variable binding, click **Skip**, and then click **Next**.
   :::

   For more information, see [Build flows](../Flows/concepts-flows.mdx#save-and-restore-flow-versions).
10. To continue to the **Review & Confirm** pane, click **Next**.
11. Confirm the deployment values are correct, and then click <Icon name="Rocket" aria-hidden="true"/> **Deploy**.

>     The Langflow terminal process reports the components found in your flow, and installs any required extra dependencies on your watsonx Orchestrate tenant automatically.

Reviewer: ah yeah, we should remove this since i plan to merge this: https://github.com/langflow-ai/langflow/pull/12707 which will remove such logs

This workflow **does not** deploy a full-featured Langflow server and flow builder UI.
Instead, Langflow packages your selected flow and flow version, and then publishes it to IBM watsonx Orchestrate as a tool that an IBM watsonx Orchestrate agent can call.
Langflow is used to build and configure the flow, while IBM watsonx Orchestrate hosts the agent experience and invokes the deployed flow as part of that agent's toolset.

## Prerequisites

- [Install and start Langflow](/get-started-installation)
- Create an [OpenAI API key](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys)
- Create an [IBM watsonx Orchestrate instance](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/watsonx/watson-orchestrate/base?topic=getting-started-watsonx-orchestrate)

## Create and deploy a flow

1. Create a flow in the Langflow UI, such as the Simple Agent starter flow in the [Quickstart](/get-started-quickstart).

2. Click <Icon name="Rocket" aria-hidden="true"/> **Deploy**.
The **Provider** pane opens.

3. Enter the **Name**, **Service Instance URL**, and **API Key** from your IBM watsonx Orchestrate instance.
These values are found in the **Settings** page of your IBM watsonx Orchestrate instance.

> The values look similar to the example below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

   - **Name**: `YOUR_DEPLOYMENT_NAME`
   - **Service Instance URL**: `https://api.dl.watson-orchestrate.ibm.com/instances/80194572-4421-6735-91ab-55c0d8e4f962`
   - **API Key**: `YOUR_WATSONX_ORCHESTRATE_API_KEY`

>    The last segment of the Service Instance URL is the IBM watsonx Orchestrate tenant ID.

Reviewer 2: Why does this explain the tenant ID but tenant ID is not one of the parameters?

Author: Tenant ID is a parameter in watsonx orchestrate, which can help them find the service instance URL. I'll clarify

   In this example, the tenant ID is `80194572-4421-6735-91ab-55c0d8e4f962`.

4. Click **Next**.
   The **Deployment Type** pane opens.
5. Enter a **Type**, **Agent Name**, **Model**, and **Description**.

>     * The **Type** is always **Agent**. The deployed flow is an IBM watsonx Orchestrate agent with your flow available as a tool the agent can call.
>     * The **Model** list is populated from the connected watsonx Orchestrate instance, not Langflow.

Reviewer 2: Since you didn't describe every setting, I would just use paragraphs for these instead of a list.

```suggestion
    The **Type** is always **Agent**. The deployed flow is an IBM watsonx Orchestrate agent with your flow available as a tool the agent can call.

    The **Model** list is populated from the connected watsonx Orchestrate instance, not Langflow.
```

> 6. In the **Attach Flows** pane, select a flow and a version of that flow to deploy.

Reviewer 2: I think "Click Next" might be missing from step 6 and  7. Not clear how they get from deployment type to attach flows to create connections.

Author: They are tabs, i'll clarify

> 6. In the **Attach Flows** pane, select a flow and a version of that flow to deploy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. In the **Attach Flows** pane, select a flow and flow version to deploy.
```

> 7. In the **Create Connections** pane, you can either select an available connection to bind to the flow, or create a new connection.
>    To create a new connection, enter a **Connection Name**, and include any environment variables the flow requires, such as the `OPENAI_API_KEY`.
>    Langflow auto-detects global variables from the flow JSON file, but additional variables can be manually added.
> 8. To add the new connection to the list of available connections, click **Create Connection**.
> 9. In the list of available connections, select the new connection, and then click **Attach Connection to Flow**.
> 
>    :::tip
>    To bind the connection to the flow **without** environment variable binding, click **Skip**, and then click **Next**.
>    :::
> 
>    For more information, see [Build flows](../Flows/concepts-flows.mdx#save-and-restore-flow-versions).

Reviewer 2: It seems like some of the "Create new connection" steps were outside of step 7.

```suggestion
7. In the **Create Connections** pane, you can create a new connection or select an existing connection to bind to the flow.

   To create a new connection, do the following:
   
       1. Enter a **Connection Name** and any environment variables the flow requires, such as the `OPENAI_API_KEY`. Langflow auto-detects global variables from the flow JSON file, and you can add additional variables.

      2. To add the new connection to the list of available connections, click **Create Connection**.

      3. In the list of available connections, select the new connection, and then click **Attach Connection to Flow**.

   :::tip
   To bind the connection to the flow **without** environment variable binding, click **Skip**, and then click **Next**.
   :::

   For more information, see [Build flows](../Flows/concepts-flows.mdx#save-and-restore-flow-versions).
```

> 10. To continue to the **Review & Confirm** pane, click **Next**.

Reviewer 2: To match the structure of the other "Click Next" step.

```suggestion
8. Click **Next*. The **Review & Confirm** pane opens.
```

> 11. Confirm the deployment values are correct, and then click <Icon name="Rocket" aria-hidden="true"/> **Deploy**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
9. Confirm the deployment values are correct, and then click <Icon name="Rocket" aria-hidden="true"/> **Deploy**.
```

    Langflow installs any required extra dependencies on your watsonx Orchestrate tenant automatically.

    In the Langflow UI, `Deployment successful` indicates your deployment succeeded.

    :::tip

>     If you get an error that the tool name already exists on your deployment, click the <Icon name="Pencil" aria-hidden="true"/> icon to change the tool name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    If you get an error that the tool name already exists on your deployment, click <Icon name="Pencil" aria-hidden="true"/> **Edit** to change the tool name.
```

    :::

> 12. Click **Test** to open a chat window with your agent on Orchestrate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
10. Click **Test** to open a chat window with your agent on watsonx Orchestrate.
```

    Enter a question, and the agent responds using the connected flow as a tool.

> 13. Navigate to your IBM watsonx Orchestrate deployment, and confirm that your Langflow flow is listed as an agent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
11. Navigate to your IBM watsonx Orchestrate deployment, and then confirm that your Langflow flow is listed as an agent.
```

## Manage deployments in Langflow

From the **Projects** page, click **Deployments** to open the deployment management screen.

> A **deployment** is a published watsonx Orchestrate agent created from a specific Langflow flow version. The deployment records the agent name, type, attached flows, model, and the IBM watsonx Orchestrate environment it belongs to.
> 
> Use the **Deployments** tab to create, update, list, and delete flow deployments in Langflow.
> 
> A **Deployment Environment** is a saved watsonx Orchestrate target that Langflow can deploy to. An environment stores the connection details for a watsonx Orchestrate tenant.
> 
> Use the **Deployment Environments** tab to add, list, and delete IBM watsonx Orchestrate environments in Langflow.
> To manage the tenant itself, use the IBM watsonx Orchestrate dashboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Deployments**:

   A **Deployment** is a published watsonx Orchestrate agent created from a specific Langflow flow version. Deployment details include the agent name, type, attached flows, model, and the IBM watsonx Orchestrate environment it belongs to.

   Use the **Deployments** tab to create, update, view, and delete flow deployments in Langflow.

* **Deployment Environments**:

   A **Deployment Environment** is a saved watsonx Orchestrate target that Langflow can deploy to. An environment stores the connection details for a watsonx Orchestrate tenant.

   Use the **Deployment Environments** tab to connect, view, and disconnect IBM watsonx Orchestrate environments in Langflow.

   To manage the tenant itself, use the IBM watsonx Orchestrate dashboard.
```

## Send requests to your flow

After you deploy your flow to IBM watsonx Orchestrate, you can connect to it through the Langflow deployment run endpoints.

> The standard Langflow endpoint is `/run`, but for flows deployed to IBM watsonx Orchestrate, use `POST /api/v1/deployments/{deployment_id}/runs` to start a run, and `GET /api/v1/deployments/{deployment_id}/runs/{run_id}` to check its status.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Don't use the `/run` endpoint for flows deployed to IBM watsonx Orchestrate.
Instead use `POST /api/v1/deployments/{deployment_id}/runs` to start a run, and `GET /api/v1/deployments/{deployment_id}/runs/{run_id}` to check its status.
```

> Prefix the following paths with your Langflow server URL, such as `http://localhost:7860`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Endpoint paths must be prefixed with your Langflow server URL, such as `http://localhost:7860`.
```

Langflow is used to build and configure the flow, while IBM watsonx Orchestrate hosts the agent experience and invokes the deployed flow as part of that agent's toolset.

## Prerequisites

- [Install and start Langflow](/get-started-installation)
- Create an [OpenAI API key](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys)
- Create an [IBM watsonx Orchestrate instance](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/watsonx/watson-orchestrate/base?topic=getting-started-watsonx-orchestrate)

## Create and deploy a flow

1. Create a flow in the Langflow UI, such as the Simple Agent starter flow in the [Quickstart](/get-started-quickstart).

2. Click <Icon name="Rocket" aria-hidden="true"/> **Deploy**.
The **Provider** pane opens.

3. Enter the **Name**, **Service Instance URL**, and **API Key** from your IBM watsonx Orchestrate instance.
These values are found in the **Settings** page of your IBM watsonx Orchestrate instance.

   - **Name**: `YOUR_DEPLOYMENT_NAME`
   - **Service Instance URL**: `https://api.dl.watson-orchestrate.ibm.com/instances/80194572-4421-6735-91ab-55c0d8e4f962`
   - **API Key**: `YOUR_WATSONX_ORCHESTRATE_API_KEY`

>    The last segment of the Service Instance URL is the IBM watsonx Orchestrate tenant ID.

Author: ```suggestion
   The last segment of the Service Instance URL is the IBM watsonx Orchestrate tenant ID, which can be found in your watsonx Orchestrate deployment.
```
